Website Hositng > Inernet


> what is internet?

	hwo does it work
	it's like a web every spider is a computer or consumer
	www. world wide web 
	internet is a infrastructure
	internet is connected through cables in the seas

	Tier 1 company = sea level internet
						eg:- At&t,  Tata communication
	Tier 2 company = buy's net from sea level internet
						eg:- Jio, Airtel, VI india
	Tier 3 company = sells net through airtel
						eg:- asianet, Kerala vision


	t1 -cable- t2 -tower- :::

		who is the owner of internet
			everyone!

	server is a data storing device



> What is a WEBSITE?

	a website is connectiong of pages eg:- google,talrop -.com
	webpage = different pages js, css, html

	talrop.com = address
	 domain name is the address in the world of network

	 website is stored in a server made of cpu, hdd,ssd ...
	  eg:- alibaba, microsoft, amazon

	DNS domain name system
	   like we use phonebook for who to call
	   like that we use this

> IP Address

	what ?
		like our house's address street name
		 like that network also has it's adress
		  eg:- 1.92.123.32

		to identify who is using the net

		we use IP address
		internet protocol address

		to get ur ip address
		what is my ip --searach on google

		whenever u disconnect and connect new ip is formed

		anyways this is strucute din a order right?
			ipv4 and ipv6
			ver4 and ver6

		ver4 = 131.153.40.106  - four portions num- 0-255 - 8bit numbers  -- 4.3 billidion address can be maked by this  -- 32bit ip address --1981 since

		ver6 = FEDS:BA98:7654:3120:ADVD:BDFF:2990:FFFF --8 sets using 16char  hexadecimal char 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 and a,b,c,d,e,f in this . is replaced by : and 7.9x10**28 addresses can be created through this and every device can have a unique address -- since 1998  -- this is not permenetn ip address may change if disconnected and connected


		static ip address -- fixed ip address --nvr changes


> Static VS Dynamic IP Address

	2 types

		1. static  -- used by server and companies
					-- used by cctv cam 
					--given by internet service provider (ISP)

		2. dynamic  -- used by lap, phone, etc..
					-- used by normal day to day devices


> Domain Name System (DNS)

	what is it
		when we type google.com
		we first go to DNS server and it remembers our address and simplified then go es to the where it has to get recieved after we get the data

		lap > dns server > laptop > {content} > Data - to lap

> How a website Work?

	user uses browser to access website > url > google.com
	                 --inside--
	go to dns blahblahblah then we get the website google.com

	there are many stages inside this 
	happening in just 1ms



> Different Networks

	there are many nodes/ports 

	Network are
	1.PAN 2.LAN	3.WAN 4.MAN




	PAN is (personal area network)-- formed around a person consist of computer, mob, personal digital assitant -- means hotspot conneciton





	LAN IS (Local area network)  - used in schools it is agroup of computer and peripheral devices which are connection in a limited area such as school home office etc...

	CENTRAL SERVER - TO ALL DEVICES IN A CUSTOM AREA





	WAN (Wide Area Network) --covering a large area on large geographical area like countries and more

	wan consist of lan lan lan more lans
	more lans = wide are netowrk




	MAN (metroppolitan area network) connecting college campus small region or evena  entire city

	metro netowrk 
				- core network
				- 2g 5g
				- wlan, lan 
				- catv
				- xdsl
				- isdn
				...etc

